# AI-based Resume Analyser

This project tries to solve the problem that every fresher or even an experienced person faces i.e. to refine their resume and optimize it to get cleared in interview rounds.

This web application will take a pdf/docx file as input which will further provide certain feedback to the user that can be adjusted in his/her resume.This is done with the help of ChatGPT provided by OpenAI. 

I have used their API to integrate the model "gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct" into my web app which will further provide the suggestions after analysis of resume.

## Installation

Use the package manager [pip](https://pip.pypa.io/en/stable/) to install streamlit as frontend for this application and openai for using the API (incase it hasn't been previously installed).

```bash
pip install streamlit openai

```

## Usage
Firstly, import the desired libraries and store your API key in a variable. Give a title to the web app and create an uploader button to upload the user's resume. 
```python
import streamlit as st
import openai

openai.api_key = "Enter your API key here" 
st.title("Resume Feedback Application")

uploaded_file = st.file_uploader("Upload your resume", type=["pdf", "docx"])
```
We know that generally resumes are in Latin-1 encoding, but here we will consider even a case for resume for UTF-8. To handle this feature as well, we will implement an error-handling block as following:-

```python
if uploaded_file is not None:
    try:
        resume_text = uploaded_file.read().decode('utf-8')
    except UnicodeDecodeError:
        resume_text = uploaded_file.read().decode('latin-1')
```
In order to get feedback from ChatGPT, we will use feedback = openai.Completion.create(...)which inturn calls the OpenAI API to generate feedback on the resume using the GPT-3.5 model (engine="gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct"). The resume text is used as a prompt for the API request. Additional parameters like temperature and max_tokens control the response generation. 
Further, feedback generated by GPT will be displayed on screen under uploader option. 

```python
    try:
        feedback = openai.Completion.create(
            engine="gpt-3.5-turbo-instruct",  
            prompt=f"Provide feedback on this resume:\n{resume_text}\n---\n",
            temperature=0.5,
            max_tokens=400
        )
    except openai.error.InvalidRequestError as e:
        st.error(f"OpenAI API error: {str(e)}")  
    else:
        st.subheader("Feedback on your resume:")
        st.write(feedback['choices'][0]['text'].strip())
```

## Contributing

Pull requests are welcome. For major changes, please open an issue first
to discuss what you would like to change.

Please make sure to update tests as appropriate.
